apps/web/src/content/docs/courses/pitching-your-nonprofit/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Pitching Your Nonprofit
sidebar:
  label: Course Overview
category: leadership
prev: false
---
Nonprofits occupy a unique niche in our society. No one - not the founder, the staff, or the board - **owns** a nonprofit. Nonprofit leaders govern their organizations on behalf of the community they serve. Part of the work we do as nonprofit leaders is to communicate with community members about the work that’s being done in our nonprofits and the need that still exists. This module, Pitching Your Nonprofit, will help you tell your nonprofit’s story succinctly and effectively.

## Partner

This course was developed in partnership with [The Greater Sum](https://thegreatersum.org)

## Duration

60 minutes

## Live Sessions

We are pleased to offer **two** different live session related to this course. You may sign up for any upcoming class for either or both!

### Pitching Your Nonprofit: Storytelling With Purpose

Sign up for an upcoming session below:

{/*<!-- Calendly inline widget begin -->*/}
<div class="calendly-inline-widget" data-url="https://calendly.com/weareweavers/pitching-your-nonprofit?hide_event_type_details=1&hide_gdpr_banner=1" style="min-width:320px;height:700px;"></div>
<script type="text/javascript" src="https://assets.calendly.com/assets/external/widget.js" async></script>
{/*<!-- Calendly inline widget end -->*/}

### Pitch Coaching: Share Your Pitch & Get Feedback!

Sign up for an upcoming session below:

{/*<!-- Calendly inline widget begin -->*/}
<div class="calendly-inline-widget" data-url="https://calendly.com/weareweavers/pitch-coaching?hide_event_type_details=1&hide_gdpr_banner=1" style="min-width:320px;height:700px;"></div>
<script type="text/javascript" src="https://assets.calendly.com/assets/external/widget.js" async></script>
{/*<!-- Calendly inline widget end -->*/}

Commit message:

Add pitching sessions descrips & times

apps/web/src/content/docs/courses/pitching-your-nonprofit/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Pitching Your Nonprofit
sidebar:
  label: Course Overview
category: leadership
prev: false
---
Nonprofits occupy a unique niche in our society. No one - not the founder, the staff, or the board - **owns** a nonprofit. Nonprofit leaders govern their organizations on behalf of the community they serve. Part of the work we do as nonprofit leaders is to communicate with community members about the work that’s being done in our nonprofits and the need that still exists. This module, Pitching Your Nonprofit, will help you tell your nonprofit’s story succinctly and effectively.

## Partner

This course was developed in partnership with [The Greater Sum](https://thegreatersum.org)

## Duration

60 minutes

## Live Sessions

We are pleased to offer **two** different live session related to this course. You may sign up for any upcoming class for either or both!

### Pitching Your Nonprofit: Storytelling With Purpose

Deepen your learning from the Pitching Your Nonprofit module. Explore different ways you can use your central story, different “asks” for different audiences, and practice conversational doorknob skills with peers. This session covers content from Lesson 1 and 2 of the "Pitching Your Nonprofit" module in the Weave Learning Center. It would be helpful but not necessary for participants to have done the Central Story exercise in Lesson 1. This session will be offered three times:

- Saturday, March 23: 1:00pm ET / 10:00am PT
- Tuesday, April 2: 6:00pm ET / 3:00pm PT
- Thursday, May 9 at 3:00pm ET / 12:00pm PT

Sign up for an upcoming session below:

{/*<!-- Calendly inline widget begin -->*/}
<div class="calendly-inline-widget" data-url="https://calendly.com/weareweavers/pitching-your-nonprofit?hide_event_type_details=1&hide_gdpr_banner=1" style="min-width:320px;height:700px;"></div>
<script type="text/javascript" src="https://assets.calendly.com/assets/external/widget.js" async></script>
{/*<!-- Calendly inline widget end -->*/}

### Pitch Coaching: Share Your Pitch & Get Feedback!

According to one study, up to 75% of Americans suffer from fear of public speaking. MANY nonprofit leaders work bravely to overcome this fear. Why? Because they are motivated by their mission. We do it over and over and over, hating it a little less every time. Join Pitch Coaching if you’d like to get some practice delivering your pitch and get feedback from supportive peers. This session draws on the material from Lesson 3 and 5 of the "Pitching Your Nonprofit" module in the Weave Learning Center. Participants should come ready to share their nonprofit's story and to give feedback to others. This session will be offered three times:

- Thursday, April 11 at 3:00pm ET / 12:00pm PT
- Tuesday, April 30 at 6:00pm ET / 3:00pm PT
- Saturday, May 18:  at 11:00am ET / 8:00am PT

Sign up for an upcoming session below:

{/*<!-- Calendly inline widget begin -->*/}
<div class="calendly-inline-widget" data-url="https://calendly.com/weareweavers/pitch-coaching?hide_event_type_details=1&hide_gdpr_banner=1" style="min-width:320px;height:700px;"></div>
<script type="text/javascript" src="https://assets.calendly.com/assets/external/widget.js" async></script>
{/*<!-- Calendly inline widget end -->*/}
