apps/web/src/content/docs/courses/starting-a-nonprofit/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Starting a Nonprofit
sidebar:
  label: Course Overview
category: leadership
prev: false
---
Nonprofits occupy a unique niche in our society. Nonprofits are mission driven, not profit driven. They exist to accomplish positive good for the public or the environment. No one - not the founder, the staff, or the board - **owns** a nonprofit. Nonprofit leaders govern their organizations on behalf of the community they serve. If you’re considering starting a nonprofit, this course is designed to provide an overview of what’s involved as well as alternatives to the nonprofit business model.

This course is **not** intended to serve as legal or accounting advice. See the Resources section for more information.

## Partner

This course was developed in partnership with [The Greater Sum](https://thegreatersum.org)

## Duration

60 minutes

## Live Sessions

We are pleased to offer **two** different live session related to this course. You may sign up for any upcoming class for either or both!

### _Is_ it a nonprofit? Exploring Structures for Changemaking

Sign up for an upcoming session below:

{/*<!-- Calendly inline widget begin -->*/}
<div class="calendly-inline-widget" data-url="https://calendly.com/weareweavers/is-it-a-nonprofit?hide_event_type_details=1&hide_gdpr_banner=1" style="min-width:320px;height:700px;"></div>
<script type="text/javascript" src="https://assets.calendly.com/assets/external/widget.js" async></script>
{/*<!-- Calendly inline widget end -->*/}

### Building Your Team: Board Development & Fundraising

Sign up for an upcoming session below:

{/*<!-- Calendly inline widget begin -->*/}
<div class="calendly-inline-widget" data-url="https://calendly.com/weareweavers/building-your-team?hide_event_type_details=1&hide_gdpr_banner=1" style="min-width:320px;height:700px;"></div>
<script type="text/javascript" src="https://assets.calendly.com/assets/external/widget.js" async></script>
{/*<!-- Calendly inline widget end -->*/}

Commit message:

Add live session times & desc

apps/web/src/content/docs/courses/starting-a-nonprofit/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Starting a Nonprofit
sidebar:
  label: Course Overview
category: leadership
prev: false
---
Nonprofits occupy a unique niche in our society. Nonprofits are mission driven, not profit driven. They exist to accomplish positive good for the public or the environment. No one - not the founder, the staff, or the board - **owns** a nonprofit. Nonprofit leaders govern their organizations on behalf of the community they serve. If you’re considering starting a nonprofit, this course is designed to provide an overview of what’s involved as well as alternatives to the nonprofit business model.

This course is **not** intended to serve as legal or accounting advice. See the Resources section for more information.

## Partner

This course was developed in partnership with [The Greater Sum](https://thegreatersum.org)

## Duration

60 minutes

## Live Sessions

We are pleased to offer **two** different live session related to this course. You may sign up for any upcoming class for either or both!

### _Is_ it a nonprofit? Exploring Structures for Changemaking

How do you determine whether your work should become a nonprofit, business, or something else? Explore options and imagine possibilities, considering the pros and cons of forming a nonprofit. This session will cover the content from Lesson 2 of the “Starting A Nonprofit” module in the Weave Learning Center. Participants do not need to have completed the module to participate. This session will be offered three times:

- Friday, March 22: 11:00am ET / 8:00am PT
- Tuesday, April 9: 6:00pm ET / 3:00pm PT
- Wednesday, May 8: 3:00pm ET / 12:00pm PT

Sign up for an upcoming session below:

{/*<!-- Calendly inline widget begin -->*/}
<div class="calendly-inline-widget" data-url="https://calendly.com/weareweavers/is-it-a-nonprofit?hide_event_type_details=1&hide_gdpr_banner=1" style="min-width:320px;height:700px;"></div>
<script type="text/javascript" src="https://assets.calendly.com/assets/external/widget.js" async></script>
{/*<!-- Calendly inline widget end -->*/}

### Building Your Team: Board Development & Fundraising

What role does the Board of Directors play in the management of a nonprofit? What skills and expertise does your Board need, and what work does a Board do? This session will expand on the content from Lesson 3 of the "Starting a Nonprofit" module in the Weave Learning Center. Participants do not need to have completed the module to participate. This session will be offered three times:

- Thursday, March 28: 11:00am ET / 8am PT
- Saturday, April 27: 11:00am ET / 8am PT
- Wednesday, May 15 at 3:00pm ET / 12:00pm PT

Sign up for an upcoming session below:

{/*<!-- Calendly inline widget begin -->*/}
<div class="calendly-inline-widget" data-url="https://calendly.com/weareweavers/building-your-team?hide_event_type_details=1&hide_gdpr_banner=1" style="min-width:320px;height:700px;"></div>
<script type="text/javascript" src="https://assets.calendly.com/assets/external/widget.js" async></script>
{/*<!-- Calendly inline widget end -->*/}
